So one day, I made a proposal to my husband. Why don’t we go on a trip together somewhere, for a change of pace. Trip? he said. He narrowed his eyes as he looked at me. Why in the world should we take a trip? Aren’t you happy living here with me?

It’s not that, I said. I’m perfectly happy. There are no problems between us. It’s just that I’m bored. I want to go somewhere far away and see things I’ve never seen before. I want to breath air I’ve never breathed before. Do you understand? And anyway, we never went on a honeymoon. We have plenty of money in the bank, and taking a few days off shouldn’t be a problem. I just think a relaxing trip somewhere would be nice.

The Ice Man heaved a deep, frozen sigh. The sigh made a crisp sound as the air crystallized. He brought his long, frost-covered fingers together on his knee. I guess so. If you want to go on a trip so badly, I’m not particularly opposed to it. I don’t think it’s such a good idea to take a trip, but if it will make you happy, I’ll do whatever you want, go wherever you want to go. Taking a vacation should be OK since I always work really hard when I’m there. I don’t think there will be any problem. But where do you want to go?

How about the South Pole? I ventured. I chose the South Pole because I thought the Ice Man would be interested in a cold place. And besides, I’ve always wanted to go to the South Pole sometime. I wanted to see the Northern Lights, and penguins. I imagined myself wearing a fur coat with an attached hood, playing with a flock of penguins under a sky lit up by the aurora borealis.

When I said this, my husband the Ice Man looked straight into my eyes. He didn’t blink even once. His gaze like sharp icicles, it pierced through my eyes to the back of my head. He pondered it silently for a moment, and finally said It’s fine, with a twinkle. Fine, if that’s what you want to do, we’ll go to the South Pole. That’s what you want to do?

I agreed.

In about two weeks I think I can take a long vacation. We can probably make all the preparations before then. Really, it won’t be a problem.
I couldn’t respond right away. When the Ice Man had looked at me with that icicle gaze, it had numbed the inside of my head.

However, with the passage of time, I came to regret that I had ever brought up the idea of going to the South Pole with my husband. I don’t know why this was so. Before the words ‘South Pole’ came out of my mouth, I had this feeling that something had changed in him. His gaze had become even sharper and more icicle-like than before; his breath had become even whiter than before; and even more frost accumulated on his fingers than before. He became even more stubborn and reticent. Now, he wasn’t eating anything at all. All of these things made me terribly uneasy. Five days before we were due to depart, I boldly made a proposal to my husband. Let’s call off the South Pole trip, I said. I’ve thought about it a little, and it’s so cold, it will probably be bad for me.

It just seems like it would be a better idea to go somewhere a little more normal. I bet Europe is really nice; why don’t we go to Spain instead? We could drink wine, and eat paella, and watch bullfights. But my husband didn’t respond. For a little while, he just stared at some place far away. Then he looked at my face. He peered deeply into my eyes. That look, was so deep that I felt as if my body, just as it was, had evaporated into nothing. No, I don’t want to go to Spain, my husband, the Ice Man, said plainly. I know it’s not fair to you, but Spain is too hot and dusty for me. And the food is too spicy. Anyway, we’ve already bought to tickets for the South Pole. We’ve already bought a fur coat for you, and a pair of fur-lined boots. We can’t afford to waste all that. At this point, we have to go.

The way he said it scared me. I had this sense of foreboding that, if we went to the South Pole, something would happen and we would lose something that we would never be able to recover. I had terrible nightmares over and over. It was the same dream each time. In the dream, I was taking a walk, and I fell in a deep hole in the ground, but no one discovered me and I ended up being frozen there. Trapped inside that ice, I could see the sky clearly. I was conscious, but I couldn’t move even a single finger. It was a terribly strange feeling. I understood as moment by moment the present changed into the past. I had no future. The past kept piling up irreversibly. And everyone kept staring at me. They were looking at the past. I was looking backwards at passing scenes.

And then I would wake up. The Ice Man was sleeping next to me. He slept without breathing at all. Just like he had died and frozen that way or something. But I loved the Ice Man. I’d start to cry. My tears would land on his cheek. Then he’d wake up and hold me in his arms. I had a bad dream, I’d say. He’d shake his head silently in the darkness. It was just a dream, he’d say. Dreams are things from the past. They aren’t from the future. That wasn’t you imprisoned there. You imprison your dreams. You understand?

Yeah, I’d say. But I wasn’t convinced.


Eventually, my husband and I boarded the plane for the South Pole. There just wasn’t a good enough reason to cancel it. The pilot and the stewardesses on the plane to the South Pole were all totally silent. I really wanted to look at the scenery outside the window, but the clouds were thick and I couldn’t see anything. After a while, they were completely covered with ice anyway. My husband just silently read a book all the while. I didn’t have the excitement or sense of anticipation that usually accompanies going on a trip. I was just going through a set of pre-determined motions.

When I first stepped off the gangway and onto the surface of the South Pole, I could feel my husband’s whole body tremble violently. It was quicker than a wink, maybe half the time that it takes to blink, so no one noticed; and my husband didn’t so much as bat an eyelash, but I couldn’t miss it. Something deep inside my husband’s body had shuddered violently, although in secret. He stopped there, looked at the sky, then stared at his hands, and finally took a deep breath. Then he looked me in the eye and beamed merrily. So, this is the land of your dreams, he said. Yeah, I said.

The gloominess of the South Pole exceeded even the worst of my premonitions. Almost no one lived there. There is just one little featureless town there. In the town, there is just one little featureless hotel. There are no sights to see. There aren’t even any penguins. You can’t see the Northern Lights. Occasionally, I’d set about trying to ask people where I might be able to see penguins, but they would just shake their heads silently. They couldn’t comprehend my speech. I would try to draw a picture of a penguin on a piece of paper. But of course, they would just shake their heads silently. I was all alone. If you took one step outside of town, there was nothing beyond but ice. There weren’t any trees; there weren’t any flowers; no rivers, no ponds, no nothing. Wherever you went, there was nothing but ice. Frozen wasteland stretched out as far as the eye could see in every direction.

And yet my husband, breathing his white breath, frost growing on his fingers, his eyes, as ever, glaring icicle-like, walked around from place to place vigorously, as if knowing no satiation. The native speech of that land quickly returned to him, and he had conversations with the people of the town, in a voice that rang as hard as ice. They talked together for hours at a time, with serious expressions on their faces. I couldn’t understand at all what in the world they were talking about so earnestly. My husband was completely delirious in that place. There was something there that entranced him. At first, this really irritated me. I felt as though I had been left behind by myself. I felt neglected and betrayed by my husband.

Eventually, though, I lost all of my strength, in the midst of that desert world, hemmed in by thick ice. Slowly, gradually. I even lost the power to be upset. It was like I had misplaced the compass of my senses. Direction vanished, time vanished, even my awareness of my own existence vanished. I don’t know when this process began or when it ended. I came to realize, though, that I was imprisoned all alone, senseless, in the midst of that world of ice, in the midst of that color-starved eternal winter. After my senses were almost all gone, I understood only this. My husband in the South Pole was not my former husband. It wasn’t that his behavior toward me had changed. He was as concerned about me as ever, and his speech was always kind. And I’m sure that he meant everything that he said. He was simply a different Ice Man than the one that I met at the ski lodge. But there wasn’t anyone there who I could ask about it. All of the South Poleans were friends with him, and besides, they couldn’t understand my speech. They all breathed their white breaths, frost grew on their faces, and they told their jokes, debated their debates, and sang their songs in South Pole-ese. I ended up locking myself in my room alone, staring blankly at the never-changing gray sky, and pouring over the impossibly complicated mystery of South Pole-ese grammar, even though I had no hope of ever mastering it.

There were no planes at the airstrip. After the plane that had brought us here promptly took off again, there hadn’t been even one single arrival. The runway had eventually become buried in a thick layer of ice. Just like my heart.

Winter has come, my husband said. It’s a very long winter. No planes will come, no ships will come. Everything is frozen. We’ll just have to wait here for the spring, he said.

After we had been in the South Pole for about three months, I realized that I was pregnant. I knew right away: the child to whom I would give birth was a little Ice Man. My uterus was covered with ice, and the amniotic fluid was mingled with slush. I could feel the chill growing in my abdomen. I just knew. The child would have his father’s icicle gaze, and frost would grow on his little fingers. And I just knew: our new family would never again leave the South Pole. Our feet would surely catch on the insensate mass of the eternal past. No matter how hard we tried, we would never shake it off.

Now, there is almost nothing left of my former self. My natural warmth has been displaced far, far away. Sometimes I forget that I ever even had it. And yet somehow I can still cry. I am truly alone. I am in a colder, lonelier place than anyone in the whole world. When I cry, the Ice Man kisses my cheek. His kisses turn my tears to ice. Then he takes these ice tears in his hand and sets them on his tongue. I love you, he says. It’s not a lie. I understand this well. The Ice Man loves me. But then, from some far-off place, a wind stirs and blows his white, frozen words away, away, into the past. I cry. Icy tears stream down my face. In our far away, frozen home at the South Pole.