I married the Ice Man.
I first met the Ice Man at this ski resort hotel. I guess that’s the kind of place one ought to meet an Ice Man. In the boisterous hotel lobby, crowded with young people, the Ice Man was sitting in a chair at the furthest possible remove from the fireplace, silently reading a book. Though it was approaching high noon, it seemed to me that the cool, fresh light of the winter morning still lingered around him. Hey, that’s the Ice Man, my friend informed me in a low voice. But at that time, I had no idea what in the world an Ice Man was. My friend didn’t really know, either. She just knew that he existed and was called the Ice Man. She’s sure he’s made out of ice. That’s why he’s called the Ice Man, she said to me with a serious expression. It was like she was talking about a ghost or somebody with a contagious disease or something.

The Ice Man was tall, and from looking at him, his hair seemed bristly. When I saw his face, he looked fairly young still, but that thick, wiry hair was white, like it had been mixed with melted snow. He had high cheek-bones that appeared to have been chiseled out of cold, hard rock, and there was a slight coating of unmelted white frost on his fingers, but other than that the Ice Man’s appearance wasn’t much different from a normal person. While he probably couldn’t have been called handsome, there was undeniably something charming in his bearing. There are some people that just jab you sharply in the heart. It was especially this way with him, so he really stood out. He had a shy, transparent look, like an icicle on a winter morning. There was something in the way his body was put together that made his whole being seem to sparkle. I stood there for a moment and gazed at the Ice Man from afar. But the Ice Man didn’t lift his face from his book even once. Without moving so much as a muscle, he continued reading. It was as if he was trying to persuade himself that there wasn’t anybody at all around him.

The next day, the Ice Man was in the same place, reading a book exactly the same way. When I went to the cafeteria to get lunch, and again when I came back in the evening from skiing with everybody else, he was sitting in the same chair as the day before, pouring over the top of a page of the same book with the same expression on his face. And the next day was the same. The day passed, the night grew late, and he sat there as quietly as the winter outside the window, reading his book alone.

On the afternoon of the fourth day, I fashioned an appropriate excuse and didn’t go out to the slopes. Staying behind alone in the hotel, I wandered around the lobby for a while. Since everyone had gone out for an afternoon skiing, the lobby was deserted like a ghost town. The air in the lobby was unnecessarily warm and moist, and there was a strange, dank smell mixed in with it. It was the smell of people tracking snow into the hotel on the bottom of their boots and then carelessly sitting by the fireplace, where it slowly melted off. I stared vacantly out the various windows, and flipped through the newspaper. Then, bravely walking up to the Ice Man, I boldly started a conversation. I’m normally a very shy person, and not at all in the habit of talking to total strangers. But at that time, I really wanted to talk to the Ice Man, no matter what. It was our last night in that hotel, and I thought that if I let it slip away, I might never have another chance to talk to an Ice Man.

Don’t you ski? I asked the Ice Man, trying to sound as casual as possible. He slowly raised his head. He had an expression on his face like he could a hear the sound of wind blowing from incredibly far away. He looked at my face with eyes like that. He silently shook his head. I don’t ski. I’m fine just reading a book and watching the snow fall, he said. His words made little white clouds in the air, like when you breathe on a TV screen. I could literally see his words with my own eyes. He gently brushed off the frost that had accumulated on his fingers.

I didn’t know what to say after that. I just stood there blushing. The Ice Man looked in my eyes. Then he seemed to smile a little. But I wasn’t really sure. Did he really smile? Or was it just a feeling? Won’t you sit down? the Ice Man said. Let’s have a little conversation. You’re curious about me, right? You want to know what an Ice Man is, right? Then he really did laugh a little. It’s OK. There’s nothing to worry about. You won’t catch a cold or anything talking to me.

This is how I came to talk to the Ice Man. Sitting side-by-side on the sofa in the corner of the lobby, watching the snow flakes dance on the other side of the window, our conversation proceeded haltingly. I ordered some cocoa and drank it. The Ice Man didn’t have anything. He was just as bad a conversationalist as me. In addition, we didn’t really have anything in common to talk about. At first, we talked about the weather. Then, how cozy the hotel was. Did you come here alone? I asked the Ice Man. Yes, the Ice Man replied. The Ice Man asked me whether I liked to ski. Not really, I responded. My girlfriends invited me to go skiing with them for some reason, but I’m not very good at it. I really wanted to know what kind of thing the Ice Man was: whether he was really made out of ice or not; what he ate; where he spent the summer; whether he had a family–that type of thing. But the Ice Man didn’t seem to want to talk about himself. I didn’t dare to broach the subject either. He probably just doesn’t like to talk about stuff like that, I thought.

Instead, we talked about me as a human being. I really couldn’t believe it, but, for whatever reason, the Ice Man knew all kinds of things about me: the make up of my family, my age, my hobbies, my health, the school I attended, the friends I hung out with–he knew it all from beginning to end. He knew things about me that had happened so long ago that I had forgotten about them.
I don’t understand, I said, blushing. I had this feeling like I was naked in public. How do you know so much about me? I asked. Can you read people’s minds?

No, it is not possible for me to read people’s minds. But I know. I just know, he said. It’s just like seeing something frozen in ice. So, when I looked at you, I could see all kinds of things about you clearly.

Can you see my future? I asked.

I can’t see the future, the Ice Man said expressionlessly. And he shook his head slowly. I’m not interested in the future at all. To speak more precisely, I have no concept of the future. Ice has no future. It just captures the past. It captures everything just as it was in life, fresh, and preserves it that way. Ice can preserve all kinds of things in this way. Totally freshly, totally clearly. Just as it is. That’s the purpose of ice, it’s true quality.
Good, I said. I laughed a little. I’m relieved to hear it. I don’t want to know anything about my future.


After we had returned to Tokyo, we got together frequently. Eventually, we were going out on dates nearly every weekend. But we didn’t go out to movies together, or to coffee shops. We didn’t even have dinner. We’d always go to parks together, sit on a bench, and talk about stuff. We really talked about a lot of different stuff. But as always, the Ice Man wouldn’t say anything about himself. Why is that? I asked him. How come you never talk about yourself? I want to know more about you–where you were born, what kind of people your parents were, and how you got to be an Ice Man. The Ice Man looked at my face for a moment. Then he slowly shook his head. I don’t know either, the Ice Man said, his voice barely above a whisper. Then he exhaled a hard, white breath into the air. I don’t have a past. I know all things past. I preserve all things past. But I myself don’t have a past. I don’t know where I was born. I wouldn’t recognize my parents if I saw them. I don’t even know whether or not I have parents. I don’t even know how old I am. I don’t even know whether I have an age or not.
The Ice Man was as isolated as an iceberg in the mist.

And gradually I came to love the Ice Man very deeply. Having no past and no future, he loved just the me of the present. And I loved just the present Ice Man, without a past and without a future. This seemed a splendid thing to me. We even began to speak of marriage. I had just turned twenty years old. And the Ice Man was the first person to inspire such feelings in me. I couldn’t imagine then what in the world it meant to love the Ice Man. But if, hypothetically, the Ice Man hadn’t been my partner, but someone else instead, I wouldn’t have known anything then either, I guess.

My mother and my sister were strongly opposed to me marrying the Ice Man. You’re too young to get married, they said. You don’t even know clearly what kind of person he is, or what his family is like. Or where he was born, or when. As your family, we can’t consent to you marrying such a person. And, besides, he’s an Ice Man. What happens if he melts? they said. I know you don’t really understand it, but marriage is a big responsibility. Do you really think that you’re capable of the responsibility of marrying this Ice Man?

But their fears were needless. It wasn’t like the Ice Man was actually made out of ice. He was just cool like ice. He doesn’t melt if he gets too warm. That chilliness really was like ice, but his body was different from ice. And while he was incredibly cold, it wasn’t the kind of coldness that robs other people of their body heat.

So we got married. No one celebrated our wedding, though. Not my friends, or my parents, or my sisters: no one was happy about it. We didn’t have a ceremony. Since the Ice Man didn’t have a family register, we didn’t even apply for a marriage license. We just jointly decided that we were married. We bought a small cake and ate it together. That was the extent of our meager wedding. We rented a little apartment, and the Ice Man got a job at a meat storehouse to cover our expenses. He liked the cold a lot, and no matter how hard he worked, he never got tired. He didn’t even stop much to eat. Naturally, he quickly caught the boss’s eye, and was rewarded with a higher salary than anybody else. We didn’t bother anybody and nobody bothered us; and we had a quiet, happy life together.

Whenever the Ice Man embraced me, I always thought of this quiet, still iceberg that existed in some far off place. I thought that the Ice Man probably knew where that iceberg was. The ice was hard, harder than anything I could think of. It was the biggest iceberg in the world. But it was in some incredibly far away place. He was telling the secret of that ice to the world. At first, the Ice Man’s embraces made me feel disoriented, but after a while I got used to it. I even came to love it. As always, he didn’t talk about himself at all. Not even why he became the Ice Man. And I didn’t ask anything. Embracing in the silence, we shared that huge, still iceberg. The entirety of past events of the whole world for billions of years was stored pristinely, just as it was, inside that ice.

In our married life, there weren’t really any problems that could properly be called problems. We loved each other deeply, and nothing impeded that. While the neighbors seemed as if they were quite unfamiliar with the existence of Ice Men, as time passed, little by little they began to talk to him. Even though he’s an Ice Man, he’s no different than anybody else, they came to say. But in the depths of their hearts they never really accepted him, and so they never really accepted that I was married to him. We were a different type of human being from them, and no matter how much time passed, that chasm could never be filled.

The two of us were unable to have children. Perhaps the result of mixing human and Ice Man genes was problematic. In any event, since we didn’t have any children, I had an abundance of free time. I’d take care of the house work fairly quickly in the morning, but after that there was nothing to do. I didn’t have any friends to talk to, or to go somewhere with, and I didn’t have much to do with the neighbors. My mother and sisters, still mad that I had married the Ice Man, weren’t speaking to me. They were ashamed of my household. There wasn’t even anyone to call on the telephone. While the Ice Man was working at the storehouse, I stayed at home all alone, reading books or listening to music. I generally prefer staying at home to going out anyway, and I’m not the kind of person for whom being alone is a trial. But in spite of this, I was still young, and the endless daily repetition without any variation began to get me down. It wasn’t the boredom that got to me. The thing I couldn’t bear was the repetition. In the midst of that endless repetition, I felt kind of like my own shadow.
