Google on Monday announced an artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) model that can identify and highlight medicines within difficult-to-read handwritten prescriptions. This will act as an assistive technology for digitising handwritten medical documents by augmenting the humans in the loop such as pharmacists, however no decision will be made solely based on the output provided by this technology.
After making a flurry of policy changes on Twitter in the past few days, Twitter Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk has started a poll on the microblogging website asking millions of users "should I step down as head of Twitter?" "Should I step down as head of Twitter? I will abide by the results of this poll," Musk asked in one of the tweets.
South Korea's first lunar orbiter Danuri started entering the orbit of the moon on Saturday, 135 days after its launch, the Korea Aerospace Research Institute (KARI) said. The unmanned space vehicle carried out its first lunar orbit insertion (LOI) manoeuvre as part of five rounds of such manoeuvres in the coming days for Danuri to be captured in the lunar orbit on December 29.
Samsung has mocked Apple in a new World Cup-themed advertisement for its lack of a flippable iPhone while promoting its own Galaxy Z Flip 4. According to MacRumors, the Galaxy Flip phones appear as fans in a soccer stadium inspired by the 2022 World Cup in an advertisement posted. While the Galaxy Flip phones cheer and flip in the stands, a few smartphones that resemble iPhones remain in the audience, standing still with sad emojis.
NASA sensors will soon help scientists detect methane emitted by landfills across the globe, according to the US space agency. A new project from a nonprofit group, Carbon Mapper, will use NASA instruments and data to measure emissions from solid waste sites such as landfills across the globe. Currently, there is limited actionable information about methane emissions from the global waste sector.
A robot capable of replicating itself autonomously is a scary prospect. At least, that's what Arnold Schwarzenegger and Terminator taught us. We are still quite far from building such robots, but we might be closer than you'd imagine. Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology are working on robots that can self-assemble and build almost anything. Their research has yielded positive results so far.
Mark Zuckerberg and Elon Musk agree on one thing - Apple's App Store policies are not fair. The Meta CEO has always been a staunch critic of Apple and its policies. During an interview at The New York Times' DealBook Summit, Zuckerberg said that Apple's policies are not sustainable. Recently, Twitter CEO Musk too fired shots at Apple's App Store policies.







